New and improved! Please read and comment below if you feel I've missed anything, or if there are obvious problems.

-------------------------------------------------------------------

0. The precise wording of each of these rules is of secondary concern to
the spirit they are attempting to capture. If something is technically
allowed, but goes against the spirit of the rule, then it's probably not okay,
up to GM discretion. 
0.1 Be sensible.

Conduct of War:

1. All player vs player wars must be announced with a pause and a statement of
wargoals.

2. Military Units are not allowed to retreat more than one province.
2.1 If a land unit is retreated through enemy units, then those troops must be
deleted.
2.2 Naval units that retreat erroneously to friendly ports are treated as in
rule 3.3. Navies that retreat to open sea zones through enemy fleets must be
deleted, noting that moving navies have a chance not to give battle.
2.3 Units may not retreat through lines.

3. Military units are not allowed to attack or retreat through neutral
territory.
3.1 Moving through neutral territory that is not being contested is fine. If
the front ever moves to border said neutral territory, then all moving troops
must return to where they were moving from. If it this is not possible (for
example, if it would cross a front) then they are considered to be retreating,
and must be deleted.
3.2 Troops left from previous wars may always return home, but cannot move
through enemy land until they do so.
3.3 Navies that retreat to neutral territory are to be escorted to the
nearest allied port, leaving the port they retreated to before the month is
up. The intent is to simulate the case where the only allies or nations giving
military access to the defeated navy would be allies in the ongoing war.

4. Each nation is allowed to mobilise once per war.

5. Each nation may only join a war once.

6. If a nation wishes to join an ongoing war, then they give 3 months notice before
they are allowed to join.

Peace Rules:

7. for the first year of war, for the attacker, wargoals are limited to what is stated at the
declaration. for the defender, they are limited to wargoals in proportion to
the stated wargoals.
7.1 once a year has passed, then the wargoals may be freely updated by either
side.
7.2 changes in wargoals must be announced in chat, and sent to a gm via
steam/discord/etc. spamming the gms will encourage them to inventively misread
your stated terms.
7.3 if a side has not stated wargoals, then a statement of surrender is taken to mean a demand for terms; the surrendering party can then retract their surrender if they prefer. 

8. The sum value of all wargoals may not go over 100%, even in the context of
separate peace treaties.

9. The war leader for a side may only surrender when all players on their side
agree to a surrender.

10. Non warleaders may offer or accept a separate peace. They are to retreat
from any ongoing battles, demobilise, and become a demilitarised zone for the
remainder of the war. If both sides agree, they may be formally peaced out,
and the warscore they expended will be recorded. Otherwise, they will remain
as a non-participant in the war until the war is concluded.
10.1 If a nation surrenders, and then their side goes on to win the war,
they are still counted as having lost the war, and the terms agreed upon at
surrender are enforced before the war is concluded.

Treaties and Alliances:

11. Alliances must be signed via a treaty on the forums.
11.1 Note: alliances are not required to join wars.

12. Treaties involving the acquisition of land give the acquirer 3 infamy per
region.
12.1 Treaties are not allowed to edit the cores of a region, or to transfer
away core land, or to involve the transfer of populations, or to involve the
transfer of infamy. See rule 0.1.
12.2 All edits that are mandated by treaty are subject to GM approval. If the
is a term of a treaty that is not allowed, then the treaty is not in effect
until an amendment has been made.

13. Treaties only last a single session.
13.1 If a treaty obliges a nation to a course of action, that course of action
is started, and that action spans multiple sessions (for example, joining a war), 
then the treaty is considered in effect until that action has been completed,
or 3 sessions have passed without a renewal treaty.

14. The maximum infamy penalty for any treaty is 10 infamy. 

Crises and Interventions

15. No wargoals are allowed to be added to crises.

16. If a nation cannot join a crisis war due to game mechanics, despite being in a position to join, this does not invalidate treaties.

17. Interventions into a player-AI war must be accompanied by a pause.

Economic Rules:

18. Stockpiling is allowed, but exclusively for actual demand. Players are not
allowed to stockpile and then flash sell, or cyclically build and destroy
structures to consume all the world supply for any goods. 

Miscellaneous Rules:

19. You are not allowed to have more than 1000 points, or 25% of your maximum
naval supply (whichever is larger) above your supply cap.

20. 'Nation ruining' is not allowed (up to the GM's discretion).

21. China is off limits.
21.1 With the exception of: Manchuria, Formosa, Hainan, and the Treaty Ports.
21.2 This includes any substates, or nations holding Chinese land.
21.3 The CBs 'Cut down to size', 'Humiliate', 'Pay Reparations', and
'Dismantle Fortifications' are permitted.

22. Nations are not bound by treaties with nations that are over the infamy
limit (25 infamy).

23. Nations that are a part of your cultural union (if any), or are subject to
wargoals, existing or being prepared, are not allowed to be released.

24. Nations already in player-vs-player wars may not be declared upon.
24.1 Nations in a player-vs-player war may still declare war on other players.
